# rscripts
### R Scripts:  Templates, Examples of Analyses using `knitr` with `Rmarkdown` or `LaTeX`, Interactive `RStudio` Demonstrations | [Contents Directory](https://github.com/harrelfe/rscripts/blob/master/contents.md)

This is for use with the R function `getRs` in the R `Hmisc` package for listing available scripts, downloading a selected script, and opening it in the RStudio script editor window.

The special file `contents.md` lists all the available files and short descriptions for them.  It should not be edited, as it is auto-generated by `createContents.r`.  `contents.md` is used when `getRs` is called with no arguments, to give the user a list of available scripts and their descriptions.

The `Rmarkdown` scripts included here use a template that makes the result part of a reproducible research process by documenting the versions of R and attached packages at the end of the report.  They make use of the `Hmisc` package's `knitrSet` function.  When running Rmarkdown, call `knitrSet(lang='markdown')`.  `knitrSet` gets rid of ## at the start of R output lines, and makes it easy to specify things like figure sizes in `knitr` chunk headers.  It also causes annoying messages such as those generated from attaching R packages to be put in a separate file `messages.txt` rather than in the report.

`contents.md` is generated from titles, major and minor categories, and types (R, R Markdown) that are at the top of each script.  R Markdown scripts must have suffix `Rmd` and have the following information between lines containing `---` and after the `output:` section: `major`, and `minor` (optional).  Scripts that fall under multiple categories have those category descriptions separated by semicolons.  See `descriptives.Rmd` for an example.  Regular R scripts must have suffix `r` and have the following in the top lines of the script (again, `minor` is optional):

```
# title: Title of Script with Purpose, etc.
# major: major category 1; major category 2 ...
# minor: minor category 1; minor category 2 ...
```

See `introda.r` for an example.

Some possible values for major categories are listed below.

|*Major Category*|*Comments*|
--------|--------
| curve fitting | |
| descriptive statistics | | 
| graphics | |
| statistical pitfalls | |
| introduction | Introduction to R |
| regression modeling | |
| statistical tests | |
| ABD | Problems from _Analysis of Biological Data_, 2nd edition, by Whitlock and Schluter |

Some possible values for minor categories are listed below.

|*Minor Category*|*Comments*|
--------|--------
| ordinary least squares | Linear Model |
| unadjusted comparisons | |
| categorization | |

To request the addition of new categories open an issue for this GitHub project.
